# Create serverless logic with Azure Functions

### Motivation 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/create-serverless-logic-with-azure-functions/1-introduction

## What is serverless compute?
Serverless compute can be thought of as a function as a service (FaaS), or a microservice that is hosted on a cloud platform. 

Serverless doesn't mean there are no servers - it just means the developer doesn't have to worry about servers. Instead, a cloud provider such as Azure, manages servers.

It is like renting a taxi instead of owning a car. You don't worry about maintaining servers; you just focus on your code, and the cloud provider handles everything else. It's simpler and more flexible because you pay only for what you use, and you can scale automatically based on demand.

Azure has several ways to build this sort of architecture. The two most common approaches are Azure Logic Apps and Azure Functions.

## What is Azure Functions?
Azure Functions is a serverless application platform. It enables developers to host business logic that can be executed without provisioning infrastructure.

Azure Functions are like little workers that do specific tasks for you in the cloud. Imagine you have a bunch of chores to do, like sorting your emails or resizing pictures. Instead of doing everything yourself, you can hire these Functions to do each chore for you.

Functions can integrate with other services, like Event Grid, GitHub, Twilio, Microsoft Graph, and Logic Apps to create complex and robust serverless workflows quickly and easily.

Here's how they work:
 - You tell Azure Functions what job you want them to do, like processing data or responding to events.
 - They wait patiently until something triggers them, like a new file uploaded or a message received.
 - When triggered, they jump into action, do their job quickly, and then go back to waiting for the next task.

## Benefits of a serverless compute solution
Serverless compute is a great option for hosting business logic code in the cloud:
- Write your business logic in the language of your choice
- Automatic scaling
- No servers to manage
- Charged based on what is used—not on reserved time
- Avoids over-allocation of infrastructure (you're only billed when your function is processing work)
- Stateless logic (function instances are created and destroyed on demand. If state is required, it can be stored in an associated storage service)
- Event driven (Functions are event driven. They run only in response to an event (called a "trigger"), such as receiving an HTTP request, or a message being added to a queue)
- Can be used in traditional compute environments

Drawbacks of a serverless compute solution:
- Execution time
  - By default, functions have a timeout of five (5) minutes. This timeout is configurable to a maximum of 10 minutes.
  - If your function requires more than 10 minutes to execute, you can host it on a VM.
  - If your service is initiated through an HTTP request and you expect that value as an HTTP response, the timeout is further restricted to 2.5 minutes
  - **Durable** Functions lets you orchestrate the executions of multiple functions without any timeout.
- Execution frequency
  -  If you expect clients to execute your function continuously, it would be prudent to estimate the usage and calculate the cost of using functions accordingly. It might be cheaper to host your service on a VM.
  -  When your function scales, only one function app instance can be created every 10 seconds, for up to 200 total instances.
  -  Each instance can service multiple concurrent executions, so there's no set limit about how much traffic a single instance can handle.

## What is a function app?
A function app is a way to organize one or more individual functions and collectively manage them with Azure App Service. All the functions in a function app, share the same pricing plan, continuous deployment, and runtime version.

When you create a function app, it must be linked to a storage account.

Function apps may use one of the following hosting plans:
- Consumption plan (provides automatic scaling and bills you only when your functions are running)
- Premium plan
  - dynamically scales
  - you can specify a minimum number of VM instances to keep warm and reduce so called "cold starts."
  - lets your functions connect to and run inside virtual networks
  - default timeout for apps in a Premium plan is 30 minutes, but they can essentially run for an unlimited time (depending on server availability)
- Dedicated (App service) plan
  - can avoid timeout periods by having your function run continuously on a VM that you define
  - you're responsible for managing the app resources the function runs on
  - a better choice when you already have excess App Service resources available on which to also run your functions.

## Triggers
Functions are event driven, which means they run in response to an event. The type of event that starts a function is called a trigger. Each function must be configured with exactly one trigger.

A trigger is a type of input binding that has the ability to initiate execution of some code.

## Bindings
A binding is a declarative way to connect data and services to your function. 
- Interact with various data sources
- Code reads data from input bindings, and writes data to output bindings
- Each function can have zero or more bindings to manage the input and output data processed by the function

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-triggers-bindings?tabs=isolated-process%2Cpython-v2&pivots=programming-language-csharp#supported-bindings
