## Explore input and output binding types

### What is a binding?
In Azure Functions, bindings provide a declarative way to connect to data from within your code. 
 - Easier to integrate with data streams consistently in a function
 - Can have multiple bindings providing access to different data elements
 - Can connect to your data sources without having to code specific connection logic (like database connections or web API interfaces)

### Types of bindings

- Input binding - Connects to a data source. Our function can read data from these input sources.
- Output binding - Connects to a data destination. Our function can write data to these output destinations.

There are also triggers, which are special types of input bindings that cause a function to run. 

### Types of supported bindings
The type of binding defines where we're reading or sending data. 
A binding type can be used as an input, an output, or both.

Common binding types include:
- Blob Storage
- Azure Service Bus Queues
- Azure Cosmos DB
- Azure Event Hubs
- External files
- External tables
- HTTP endpoints

### Binding properties
Three properties are required in all bindings, though you might have to supply more properties based on the type of binding and storage you're using.
- Name - Defines the function parameter through which you access the data. For example, in a queue input binding, this property is the name of the function parameter that receives the queue message content.
- Type - Identifies the type of binding. For example, the type of data or service you want to interact with.
- Direction - Indicates the direction data is flowing. For example, is it an input or output binding?

Additionally, most binding types also need a fourth property:
- Connection - Provides the name of an app setting key that contains the connection string. Bindings use connection strings stored in app settings to keep secrets out of the function code. Connection strings make your code more configurable and secure.

Example: 
```
{
  "name": "headshotBlob",
  "type": "blob",
  "path": "thumbnail-images/{filename}",
  "connection": "HeadshotStorageConnection",
  "direction": "in"
},
```
